Welcome. I will now
show you how to
train a neural machine
translation system from scratch.
I'll go through every step
slowly so you can understand
what is going on behind the
scenes. Let's get started.
In this video, I'll show you
how everything you have
seen this week fits
together into the
model architecture
you will implement in
this week's assignments.
First, I'll give you
a general overview
before I go into the
more intricate details.
You will implement
a model similar to
the one you have seen
in previous lectures.
You will have an encoder that
gets the input sequence,
a decoder which is supposed
to do the translation,
and an Attention Mechanism
which would help
the decoder focus on
the important parts of
the input sequence.
Recall that the decoder
is supposed to pass
hidden states to the
Attention Mechanism
to get context vectors.
The pass of the hidden
states from the decoder to
the Attention Mechanism could
not be easy to implement.
Instead, you will be
using two decoders,
a pre-attention decoder
to provide hidden states,
and a post-attention decoder
which will provide
the translation.
A general overview of
the modified model
looks as follows.
You will have the encoder
and a pre-attention decoder
that's got the inputs
and target sequences.
Then for the
pre-attention decoder,
the target sequence
is shifted right,
which is how you'll be
implementing the teacher forcing.
From the encoder and
pre-attention decoder,
you will retrieve
the hidden states at
each step and use them
as inputs for the
Attention Mechanism.
You will use the
hidden states from
the encoder as the
keys and values,
while those from the
decoder are the queries.
As you have seen in
previous lectures,
the Attention Mechanism will
use these values to compute
the context vectors.
Finally, the post-attention
decoder will
use the context vectors as
inputs to provide the
predicted sequence.
Now, let's take a closer look
at each piece of the model.
The initial step is
to make two copies of
the input tokens and
the target tokens
because you will need them in
different places of the model.
One copy of the input tokens
is fed into the encoder,
which is used to transform
them into the key
and value vectors,
while a copy of
the target tokens
goes into the
pre-attention decoder.
Note that the
computations done in
the encoder and
pre-attention decoder
could be done in parallel,
since they don't
depend on each other.
Within the
pre-attention decoder,
you shift each
sequence to the right
and add a start of
sentence token.
In the encoder and
pre-attention decoder,
the inputs and
targets go through
an embedding layer
before going to LSTMs.
After getting the query
key and value vectors,
you have to prepare them
for the attention layer.
You'll use a function
to help you get
a padding mask to help
the attention layer determine
the padding tokens.
This step is where you will
use the copy of
the input tokens.
Now, everything is
ready for attention.
You pass the queries,
keys, values,
and the mask to the
attention layer
that outputs the context
vector and the mask.
Before going through the
decoder, you drop the mask.
You then pass the
context vectors through
the decoder composed of an LSTM,
a dense layer, and a LogSoftmax.
In the end, your model returns
log probabilities and the copy
of the target tokens that
you made at the beginning.
There you have it,
the model you'll be
building and the intuition
behind all the steps.
Take a break and just
let all that sink in.
You now have an overview
of how NMT is implemented.
If you did not
understand everything,
do not worry about it.
We will go in more detail in
this week's programming
assignments.
In the next video,
I will talk about how to
evaluate your system.